.\" shrike(1) — x86-64 / AArch64 ROP gadget finder
.TH SHRIKE 1 "2026-04-18" "shrike 1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
shrike \- find, classify and compose ROP/JOP gadgets in ELF64 binaries

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shrike
.RI [ options ]
.I FILE...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shrike
walks the executable PT_LOAD segments of one or more ELF64 binaries
(x86-64 or AArch64), enumerates ROP/JOP gadgets, and emits them in
plain text (default), JSON-Lines, SARIF 2.1.0, pwntools-compatible
Python, or a category-aware CycloneDX SBOM property block.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Scan configuration
.TP
.B --max-insn N
Maximum instructions per gadget (default 5).
.TP
.B --back N
Maximum bytes to scan back from each terminator on x86-64 (48).
.TP
.B --no-syscall | --no-int | --no-ind
Skip respective terminator class.

.SS Output filtering
.TP
.B --filter PATTERN
Substring match against the mnemonic line.
.TP
.B --regex PATTERN
POSIX regex against the mnemonic line.
.TP
.B --unique
Deduplicate identical mnemonic chains.
.TP
.B --canonical
Implies --unique; collapses semantically equivalent gadgets
(e.g. xor reg,reg → ZERO(reg), retn 0 → ret).
.TP
.B --limit N
Stop after N emitted gadgets.
.TP
.B --category CSV
Keep only gadgets whose category is in the list
(pop, mov, arith, stack_pivot, syscall, indirect, ret_only, other).
.TP
.B --bad-bytes CSV
Reject gadgets whose address contains any of the listed bytes.

.SS CET / BTI classification
.TP
.B --shstk-survivable
Keep only non-RET terminators.
.TP
.B --endbr
Keep only gadgets starting at ENDBR64 (x86) / BTI (aarch64).
.TP
.B --cet-tag
Append [SHSTK-BLOCKED]/[ENDBR/BTI] inline.
.TP
.B --cet-posture
Parse PT_GNU_PROPERTY and report IBT/SHSTK/BTI flags.

.SS Specialised modes
.TP
.B --reg-index | --reg-index-python | --reg-index-json
Register-control index (table / pwntools dict / JSON).
.TP
.B --recipe SRC
DSL chain composer; combine with --format pwntools.
.TP
.B --pivots | --pivots-json
Stack pivot atlas sorted by |delta|.
.TP
.B --sarif
SARIF 2.1.0 for GitHub Code Scanning.
.TP
.B --diff
Two inputs only; symmetric difference of canonical gadgets.
.TP
.B --raw --raw-arch ARCH --raw-base ADDR
Scan a headerless blob (for PE/Mach-O .text extracts).
.TP
.B --cdx-props
Emit a CycloneDX properties block summarising gadget counts.
.TP
.B --density
Per-segment histogram of gadgets per 4 KB window.
.TP
.B --wx-check
Flag W+X PT_LOAD segments (and exit with code 1).

.SH EXIT CODES
.IP 0
All inputs scanned cleanly, no policy violations.
.IP 1
Runtime error, W^X violation, recipe missing a gadget, or load
error on any input.
.IP 2
Bad invocation (malformed flags, missing required arguments).

.SH EXAMPLES
Dump every pop/ret in /bin/bash:
.PP
.RS
shrike --category pop /bin/bash
.RE
.PP
Find every deduplicated "pop rdi ; ret" whose address has no null
or newline byte:
.PP
.RS
shrike --filter 'pop rdi ; ret' --bad-bytes 0x00,0x0a --unique /bin/bash
.RE
.PP
Generate an exploit skeleton for an execve chain:
.PP
.RS
shrike /bin/bash /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6 \\
    --recipe 'rdi=*; rsi=*; rdx=*; rax=59; syscall' \\
    --format pwntools > exploit.py
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Baurzhan Atynov <bauratynov@gmail.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR readelf (1),
.BR objcopy (1),
.BR checkhard (1),
.BR lbr-hunt (1).
